# Cosm.os

## Intro

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects

Cosm.os was my industrial design honours project.
it was born out of a mix of my fascination with
systems thinking, and my difficulty reconciling
the positive community aspects of social media and
the negative aspects
